To the Public: On the 17th day of May, 1781, the following plan was submitted to the consideration of the United States in Congress assembled:

PLAN for establishing a NATIONAL BANK for the United States of North-America.

I. THAT a subscription be opened for four hundred thousand dollars, in shares of four hundred dollars each, to be paid in gold or silver.
II. THAT the subscription be paid into the hands of George Clymer, and John Nixon, Esqrs., or their agents.
III. That every subscriber of less than five shares, pay the whole sum on the day of his subscription.
IV. That every subscriber of five shares, or upwards, pay one half the sum on the day of his subscription, and the other half within three months of that day.
V. That every holder of a share shall be entitled to vote by himself, his agent or proxy, properly appointed, at all elections of directors, and that he have as many votes as he holds shares, and that every subscriber may sell or transfer his share or shares, at his pleasure, the transfer being made in the bank books, in presence and with the approbation of the proprietor, or his lawful attorney; the purchaser then to become entitled to the right of voting, etc.
VI. That there be twelve directors chosen from among those entitled to vote, who at their first meeting shall choose one as president.
VII. That there be a meeting of the directors quarterly, for the purpose of regulating the affairs of the bank, and seven of the directors to make a board, and that the board have power to adjourn from time to time.
VIII. That the board of directors determine the manner of doing business, and the rules and forms to be pursued, appoint the various officers which they may find necessary, and dispose of the money and credit of the bank, for the interest and benefit of the proprietors, and make from time to time such dividends, out of the profits, as they may think proper.
IX. That the board be empowered from time to time, to open new subscriptions, for the purpose of increasing the capital of the bank, on such terms and conditions as they shall think proper.
X. That the board shall at every quarterly meeting choose two directors, to inspect and control the business of the bank, for the ensuing three months.
XI. That the inspectors so chosen, shall, on the evening of every day, Sundays excepted, deliver to the superintendent of the finances of America, a state of the cash account; and of the notes issued and received.
XII. That the bank notes, payable on demand, shall by law be made receivable in the duties and taxes of every state in the union, and from the respective states, by the treasury of the United States, as specie.
XIII. That the superintendent of the finances of America shall have a right, at all times, to examine into the affairs of the bank, and for that purpose shall have access to all the books and papers.
XIV. That any director or officer of the bank, who shall convert any of the property, monies or credits thereof to his own use, or shall any other way be guilty of fraud or embezzlement, shall forfeit all his share or stock to the company.
XV. That laws shall be passed making it felony without benefit of clergy, to commit such fraud or embezzlement.
XVI. That the subscribers shall be incorporated under the name of “The President, Directors, and Company of the Bank of North-America.”
XVII. That none of the directors shall be entitled to any pecuniary advantage for his attendance on the duties of his office as director, or president, or inspector, unless an alteration, in this respect, shall hereafter be made, by the consent of a majority of the stockholders, at a general election.
XVIII. That as soon as the subscription shall be filled, George Clymer and John Nixon, Esqrs., shall publish a list of the names and sums respectively subscribed, with the place of abode of the subscribers, and appoint a day for the choice of directors, to whom, when chosen, they shall deliver over the money by them received.

On the 26th day of May, 1781, after maturely considering the above plan, Congress came to the following resolutions on that subject:

By the United States in Congress assembled, May 26, 1781.

Resolved: THAT Congress do approve of the plan for establishing a national bank in these United States, submitted to their consideration, by Mr. Robert Morris, the 17th May, 1781, and that they will promote and support the same, by such ways and means, from time to time, as may appear necessary for the institution, and be consistent with the public good.

Resolved, That the subscribers to the said bank shall be incorporated, agreeably to the principles and terms of the plan, under the name of “The President, Directors and Company of the Bank of North-America,” so soon as the subscription shall be filled, the directors and president chosen, and application for the purpose be made to Congress, by the president and directors elected.

Resolved, That it be recommended to the several states, by proper laws for that purpose, to provide, that no other bank or bankers shall be established or permitted within the said states, respectively, during the war.

Resolved, That the notes, hereafter to be issued by the said bank, payable on demand, shall be receivable in payments of all taxes, duties and debts due, or that may become due or payable to the United States.

Resolved, That Congress will recommend to the several legislatures to pass laws, making it felony without benefit of clergy, for any person to counterfeit bank notes, or so pass such notes knowing them to be counterfeit; also, making it felony, without any benefit of clergy, for any president, inspector, director, officer or servant of the bank, to convert any of the property, money, or credit of the said bank to his own use, or in any other way to be guilty of fraud or embezzlement, as an officer or servant of the said bank.

Extract from the minutes,
CHARLES THOMSON, Sec.

This full acquiescence of the supreme representatives of America gives such weight to the reasonings on that subject, as carries with it the fullest conviction.

It is not therefore to enforce but to explain the plan, that I have taken the liberty to submit the following observations:

The four first articles relate to the stock, and the means of obtaining it.—Four hundred thousand dollars are named; because it is conceived that such sum will be speedily and readily subscribed: how far it may be adequate to the purposes in view, or how much greater sum might have been subscribed, are unnecessary questions; let us at present make use of the resources clearly in our power, and if (as is most probable) those resources shall on experiment appear greater than at present, then, according to the ninth article, the operation may be further extended, so as fully to answer the end proposed.

The gentlemen named to receive the subscriptions are the present directors of the Pennsylvania bank: as this business must of necessity be, in the present instance, transacted by private persons, and as they are generally known in that line, they naturally present themselves to our consideration; their private characters will give additional weight to all their exertions.

The eighteenth article points out the mode of delivering the business over out of their hands into those of the proper officers.

The sixteenth article, which provides for the incorporation is of such apparent propriety, that nothing need be said on that subject; and the fifth article, designating the rights of the stockholders, is founded on principles so well known, understood and felt throughout America, that explanations or arguments would be superfluous.

The sixth, seventh, eighth, and tenth articles, contain the outlines of the civil government of the corporation after it shall have been formed, as the holders will not only be numerous, but be scattered through this country, and perhaps some of them reside in Europe, it will be impossible for them to manage in person their own interests: The common doctrine of representation, therefore, becomes necessary: how properly that doctrine is applied, is submitted to the consideration of those who may choose to become concerned. In confidence, however, that they will be convinced, proper care is taken of individual interests as well as of the general concern.

The seventeenth article is framed according to our present situation, and what is conceived to be the disposition of men’s minds to pursue the public interest. If time and circumstances shall, by rendering the duties more laborious, or from any other cause, require an alteration, the means of making it are provided for.

The twelfth article is intended to give, on the part of government, that credit to bank notes, which the interest and convenience of individuals will naturally lead them to give in their turn. It is intended that the government shall derive advantages from this institution; government therefore should support it; not indeed by attempts to compel the acceptance of bank notes; this would be equally unnecessary and unjust, but merely by receiving a medium, the value of which is unquestionable.

The fourteenth article contains that common provision against counterfeits, which the villainy of a part of mankind has most unhappily compelled all governments to make in the like cases.

To those acquainted with the subject—It is unnecessary to observe, that when the credit of a bank is fully established, and it is known to possess considerable funds, the notes will not only have an equal currency with gold and silver, but even be preferred to those precious metals. These notes are more portable, they are not like hard money, liable to be clipped, or otherwise fraudulently reduced; the care taken by bankers, for their own sakes, and the private checks they use and continually vary, provide much more effectually against counterfeits, than can be done by any kind of coinage, and the certainty of receiving gold and silver on demand, takes away the possibility of depreciation.

The credit of bank paper from these circumstances, has always been very great, in every country where banks have been established. It is therefore almost reduced to a certainty, that it will be so in America; for in all reasoning on this subject, our surest guide is experience.

To prevent the bank from abusing public confidence, the eleventh and thirteenth articles are provided, by which the superintendent of the finances of the United States is enabled to see all their operations, of course from the deep interest which government must have in the integrity of their conduct, he will take care, that they do not swell their paper circulation beyond the reasonable bounds, which their capital will justify.

The congress have entered so fully into the force of this reasoning, as wisely to provide by the third resolution against attempts, which private persons might make of a similar nature, and with equal propriety have extended the restriction only, during the continuance of the war, leaving to a future period the provisions which may then become necessary.

The fourteenth and fifteenth articles contain cautionary provisions, equally beneficial to the corporation and to the public at large—Provisions, which are certainly founded in the most evident justice. For, however proper it may be to mingle all possible mildness in the criminal law of a country, it cannot admit of a doubt, that the flagrant breach of the greatest public trusts ought to receive the extreme punishments which can be inflicted by human laws.

To ask the end which it is proposed to answer by this institution of a bank, is merely to call the public attention to the situation of our affairs. A depreciating paper currency has unhappily been the source of infinite private mischief, numberless frauds, and the greatest distress—the national calamities have moved with an equal pace—and the public credit has received the deepest injury. This is a circumstance so unusual in republican governments, that we may boldly affirm, it cannot continue one moment after the several legislatures shall have determined to take those vigorous and effectual measures; to which the public voice now loudly commands their attention. In the mean time, the exigencies of the United States require an action of our revenues, while at the same time, there is not such confidence established as will call out for that purpose the funds of individual citizens. The use, then, of a bank is, to aid the government by their monies and credit, for which they will have every proper reward and security. To gain from individuals that credit, which property, abilities and integrity never fail to command: To supply the loss of that paper money which, becoming more and more useless, calls every day more loudly for its final redemption, and to give a new spring to commerce, in the moment, when, by the removal of all restrictions, the citizens of America shall enjoy and possess that freedom for which they contend.

In return for these benefits; the subscribers as they will be entitled to, so they will receive that advantage from this investment of their capital which has invariably attended the business of banking in every free commercial country.

It might be expected that some address should be made to the patriotism of the public on this occasion; but this is needless; let the measure be examined, and let it be supported only so far as it is reasonable, useful and just.

ROBERT MORRIS.
Philadelphia, May 28, 1781.

We, the subscribers, having read the above plan for establishing a national Bank for the United States of America, approving, confirming, and hereby agreeing to the same; We sign our names, and, opposite thereto, affix the number of shares for which we subscribe, having made, and further agreeing to make payment, according to the conditions herein specified.
